api/README.md, before:

# Spring Boot RESTful API

> This is an example of a Java RESTful API with Spring Boot and MariaDB.
> It exposes REST resources under http://localhost:8080/api/v1/.
> See the a list of resources in the Swagger UI (http://localhost:8080/api/v1/swagger-ui) or OpenAPI documentation as JSON (http://localhost:8080/api/v1/api-docs).

## Prerequisites

- Install a JDK in at least version 21
- Make sure that `JAVA_HOME` is set correctly to the root directory of your JDK. You can check with this command: `echo %JAVA_HOME%` (or `echo $JAVA_HOME` on Linux / Git Bash)
- Make sure that the JDK `bin` folder is added to your `PATH`. You can check with this command: `echo %PATH%` (or `echo $PATH` on Linux / Git Bash)
- You can also install [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) yourself, but if you use the Maven Wrapper scripts (`mvnw` or `mvnw.cmd`), this is not necessary, since Maven will be downloaded in this case
- Install and start a local [MariaDB server](https://mariadb.org/download/). You can instead use the [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml). If necessary, update the [API configuration file](src/main/resources/application.properties) with your database port (default is `3306`) and credentials (default is `root`:`root`)

## Usage

```bash
# build and package executable --> appears in target/rest-api.jar
./mvnw clean install

# execute tests only
./mvnw test

# generate test coverage report (execute tests first) --> appears in target/site/jacoco/index.html
./mvnw jacoco:report

# build and package executable without running tests
./mvnw clean install -DskipTests

# run the created JAR file
# --> http://localhost:8080/api/v1/cats
java -jar ./target/rest-api.jar

# for development: build and run in live-reload mode (rebuild on save)
# --> http://localhost:8080/api/v1/cats
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```

After you run the created JAR file, you should be able to see the implemented resources in your browser (http://localhost:8080/api/v1/cats).

## Documentation

- General references: https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/htmlsingle
- Application properties: https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/appendix-application-properties.html

Commit message:

added two environment variables FRONTEND_URL and VITE_BASE_API_URL to be able to host front and backend separately in a cloud environment, updated READMEs to reflect how to run and use them, changed default ports from 8080 to 8001 of the backend since the port is troublesome in the bwCloud, the database is now changed to 'sopradb' and a new user 'soprauser' with a default password 'randompassword' is now used, the required Java Version was adjusted to 17 instead of 21 to avoid installing the newest version of Java with a TAR file instead of via a package manager

api/README.md, after:

# Spring Boot RESTful API

> This is an example of a Java RESTful API with Spring Boot and MariaDB.
> It exposes REST resources under http://localhost:8001/api/v1/.
> See the a list of resources in the Swagger UI (http://localhost:8001/api/v1/swagger-ui) or OpenAPI documentation as JSON (http://localhost:8001/api/v1/api-docs).

## Prerequisites

- Install a JDK in at least version 17
- Make sure that `JAVA_HOME` is set correctly to the root directory of your JDK. You can check with this command: `echo %JAVA_HOME%` (or `echo $JAVA_HOME` on Linux / Git Bash)
- Make sure that the JDK `bin` folder is added to your `PATH`. You can check with this command: `echo %PATH%` (or `echo $PATH` on Linux / Git Bash)
- You can also install [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) yourself, but if you use the Maven Wrapper scripts (`mvnw` or `mvnw.cmd`), this is not necessary, since Maven will be downloaded in this case
- Install and start a local [MariaDB server](https://mariadb.org/download/). You can instead use the [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml). If necessary, update the [API configuration file](src/main/resources/application.properties) with your database port (default is `3306`) and credentials (default is `root`:`root`)

## Usage

```bash
# build and package executable --> appears in target/rest-api.jar
./mvnw clean install

# execute tests only
./mvnw test

# generate test coverage report (execute tests first) --> appears in target/site/jacoco/index.html
./mvnw jacoco:report

# build and package executable without running tests
./mvnw clean package -DskipTests

# run the created JAR file
# --> http://localhost:8001/api/v1/cats
java -jar ./target/rest-api.jar

# for development: build and run in live-reload mode (rebuild on save)
# --> http://localhost:8001/api/v1/cats
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```

After you run the created JAR file, you should be able to see the implemented resources in your browser (http://localhost:8001/api/v1/cats).

If you are hosting your application somewhere else than on your localhost, you need the public DNS address and port of your frontend to be added to the allowed origins.
(You need this because your frontend must at least run on another port and not making spring-boot aware of this will result in a cors error in your browser).
For that, do the following:
```sh
export FRONTEND_URL="http://abc12378-ab00-cd11-de22.ma.bw-cloud-instance.org:8000"
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```

Alternatively, you can place your frontend files in a `src/main/resources/static/` folder which will then be hosted on the same port as the spring-boot API, i.e., 8001.
Refer to the README in the `frontend/` folder. You can then run the application by bundling it into a JAR:
```sh
rm -rf src/main/resources/static
cp -r ../frontend/dist src/main/resources/static
./mvnw clean package
java -jar target/rest-api.jar
```

## Documentation

- General references: https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/htmlsingle
- Application properties: https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/appendix-application-properties.html
